REPRESENTATION OF THE PEOPLE ACT, 1951 - KEY SECTIONS

Section 123: Corrupt Practices
The following shall be deemed to be corrupt practices for the purposes of this Act:
(1) Bribery, that is to say, any gift, offer or promise by a candidate or his agent or by any other person with the consent of a candidate...
(2) Undue influence, that is to say, any direct or indirect interference or attempt to interfere on the part of the candidate or his agent...
(3) The appeal by a candidate or his agent or by any other person with the consent of a candidate or his election agent to vote or refrain from voting for any person on the ground of his religion, race, caste, community or language...

Section 125: Promoting enmity between classes in connection with election
Any person who in connection with an election under this Act promotes or attempts to promote on grounds of religion, race, caste, community or language, feelings of enmity or hatred... shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.

Section 126: Prohibition of public meetings during period of forty-eight hours ending with hour fixed for conclusion of poll
(1) No person shall (a) convene, hold, attend, join or address any public meeting or procession in connection with an election... (b) display to the public any election matter by means of cinematograph, television or other similar apparatus...

Section 127A: Restrictions on the printing of pamphlets, posters, etc.
(1) No person shall print or publish, or cause to be printed or published, any election pamphlet or poster which does not bear on its face the names and addresses of the printer and the publisher thereof.

ECI MODEL CODE OF CONDUCT (MCC)
1. General Conduct: No party or candidate shall include in any activity which may aggravate existing differences or create mutual hatred or cause tension between different castes and communities, religious or linguistic.
2. Meetings: The party or candidate shall inform the local police authorities of the venue and time of any proposed meeting well in time so as to enable the police to make necessary arrangements for controlling traffic and maintaining peace and order.
3. Polling Day: All Political parties and candidates shall (i) co-operate with the officers on election duty to ensure peaceful and orderly polling... (ii) supply to their authorized workers suitable badges or identity cards.
